README.md, before:

# Studi Kasus Back-End

This RESTful web service designed to support the operations of a food store application. It serves as the backbone of a food store system, handling various functionalities related to managing food products, customer orders, and user authentication.

This project use:
- Node.js v18.16.0
- Express
- Pug (template engine)

## Features
- **Product Management**: The API allows for the creation, retrieval, update, and deletion of food products. It provides endpoints to add new products, view product details, update product information, and remove products from the inventory.
- **Order Processing**: The API enables the management of customer orders. It provides endpoints to place new orders, retrieve order details, update order status, and track the progress of orders. It also calculates order totals.
- **User Authentication**: The API supports user authentication to ensure secure access to protected endpoints. It integrates with industry-standard authentication mechanism, JSON Web Tokens (JWT), allowing users to authenticate and authorize their requests.
- **Search and Filtering**: The API provides search and filtering capabilities to help users find specific products based on various criteria. It supports queries such as searching for products by name.

## Usage
### Authentication:
- #### Register:
	Send POST request to:

	`/auth/login`

	With request body:

		{
			email: userEmail@email.com,
			password: userpassword
		}

- #### Login:
	Send POST request to:

	`/auth/login`

	with request body:

		{
			email: userEmail@email.com,
			password: userpassword
		}

	and "authorization" request header:

	`Authorization: Bearer [userToken]`

- #### Logout
	Send POST request to:

	`/auth/logout`

	with `Authorization: Bearer [userToken]` header.

### Products and orders handling:

From this point, `Authorization: Bearer [userToken]` is rerquired for every request.

Guest (not-logged in) users will only able to view the products.

#### Product

Add, update, delete is **restricted** to user with **admin** role only.

- ##### View Products
	GET `/api/products` or with optional skip and limit for pagination and filters which can be passed as query.

	Possible queries:
	- skip=Number
	- limit=Number
	- search=String
	- category=String
	- tags[]=[String]

- ##### Add Product
	POST `/api/products` with body:

		{
			name: productName,
			description: productDescription,
			price: 9999,
			image_url: image.jpg (file),
			category: categoryName,
			tags: tagName
		}

- ##### Update Product
	PUT `/api/products/[product-id]` with body that specifies which field(s) is going to be updated and it's new value. Example:

		{
			name: productName,
			price: 9999,
		}

- ##### Delete Product
	DELETE `/api/products/[product-id]`

#### Category

All `/api/categories` endpoints is **restricted** to **admin** only

- ##### View Categories
	GET `/api/categories`

- ##### Add Category
	POST `/api/categories` with a body containing:

		{
			name: categoryName
		}

- ##### Update Category
	PUT `/api/categories/[category-id]` with a body:

		{
			name: newCategoryName
		}

- ##### Delete Category
	DELETE `/api/categories/[category-id]`

#### Tag

All `/api/tags` endpoints is **restricted** to **admin** only

- ##### View Tags
	GET `/api/tags`

- ##### Add Tag
	POST `/api/tags` with a body containing:

		{
			name: tagName
		}

- ##### Update Tag
	PUT `/api/tags/[tag-id]` with a body:
	
		{
			name: newTagName
		}

- ##### Delete Tag
	DELETE `/api/tags/[tag-id]`

#### Delivery Address

All logged in users have access to every delivery address endpoints. 

**Field specific authorization** is in effect for update and delete operation. So users only authorized to update and delete what's belong to them.

- ##### View delivery addresses
	GET `/api/delivery-addresses`

- ##### Add delivery address
	POST `/api/delivery-addresses` with body:

		{
			label: addressLabel (ex: Alamat Rumah),
			kelurahan: kelurahanName,
			kecamatan: kecamatanName,
			kota: kotaOrKabupatenName,
			provinsi: provinsiName,
			detail: addressDetails (street, block, unit number)
		}

- ##### Update delivery address
	PUT `/api/delivery-addresses/[address-id]` with body:

		{
			label: newAddressLabel (ex: Alamat Rumah),
			kelurahan: newKelurahanName,
			kecamatan: newKecamatanName,
			kota: newKotaOrKabupatenName,
			provinsi: newProvinsiName,
			detail: AddressDetails (street, block, unit number)
		}

- ##### Delete delivery address
	DELETE `/api/delivery-addresses/[address-id]`

#### Cart

*Subject to changes. It's possible a controller for updating cart is  added. So user can update their cart instead of creating new cart everytime.

- ##### View cart
	GET `/api/cart`

- ##### Add cart
	POST `/api/cart` with body: 

		[
			{
				product: productId,
				quantity: 9999
			},
			{
				product: productId,
				quantity: 9999
			}
		]

- ##### Delete cart
	DELETE `/api/cart/[cart-id]`

#### Order

Field specific authorization is in effect for delete operation.

Admin is the only one who can do update on orders, and it's only for updating delivery_status.

- ##### View orders
	GET `/api/order`

- ##### Add order
	POST `/api/order`

	This POST request does not require request body, because all needed data is retrieved from document in Cart collection.

- ##### Update order
	PUT `/api/order/[order-id]` with body:

		{
			delivery_status:  deliveryStatus
		}

	delivery_status enums:
	- Menunggu pembayaran
	- Diproses
	- Dalam pengiriman

- ##### Delete order
	DELETE `/api/order/[order-id]`

#### Invoice

Invoice is rendered with pug using data from Order.

Field specific authorization is in effect.

- ##### View invoice
	GET `/api/invoice/[order-id]`

	Pay attention to the params. It's using order id. There is no invoice id.

Commit message:

Integrating Cloudinary as storage for products images

README.md, after:

# Studi Kasus Back-End

This RESTful web service designed to support the operations of a food store application. It serves as the backbone of a food store system, handling various functionalities related to managing food products, customer orders, and user authentication.

This project use:
- Node.js v18.16.0
- Express
- MongoDB
- Cloudinary
- Pug (template engine)

## Features
- **Product Management**: The API allows for the creation, retrieval, update, and deletion of food products. It provides endpoints to add new products, view product details, update product information, and remove products from the inventory.
- **Order Processing**: The API enables the management of customer orders. It provides endpoints to place new orders, retrieve order details, update order status, and track the progress of orders. It also calculates order totals.
- **User Authentication**: The API supports user authentication to ensure secure access to protected endpoints. It integrates with industry-standard authentication mechanism, JSON Web Tokens (JWT), allowing users to authenticate and authorize their requests.
- **Search and Filtering**: The API provides search and filtering capabilities to help users find specific products based on various criteria. It supports queries such as searching for products by name.

## Usage
### Authentication:
- #### Register:
	Send POST request to:

	`/auth/login`

	With request body:

		{
			email: userEmail@email.com,
			password: userpassword,
			role: user or admin (default: user)
		}

- #### Login:
	Send POST request to:

	`/auth/login`

	with request body:

		{
			email: userEmail@email.com,
			password: userpassword
		}

	and "authorization" request header:

	`Authorization: Bearer [userToken]`

- #### Logout
	Send POST request to:

	`/auth/logout`

	with `Authorization: Bearer [userToken]` header.

### Products and orders handling:

From this point, `Authorization: Bearer [userToken]` is rerquired for every request.

Guest (not-logged in) users will only able to view the products.

#### Product

Add, update, delete is **restricted** to user with **admin** role only.

- ##### View Products
	GET `/api/products` or with optional skip and limit for pagination and filters which can be passed as query.

	Possible queries:
	- skip=Number
	- limit=Number
	- search=String
	- category=String
	- tags[]=[String]

- ##### Add Product
	POST `/api/products` with body:

		{
			name: productName,
			description: productDescription,
			price: 9999,
			image: image.jpg (file),
			category: categoryName,
			tags: tagName
		}

	Allowed image format:
	- .png
	- .jpg
	- .jpeg
	- .gif

- ##### Update Product
	PUT `/api/products/[product-id]` with body that specifies which field(s) is going to be updated and it's new value. Example:

		{
			name: productName,
			price: 9999,
			image: newImage.png
		}

- ##### Delete Product
	DELETE `/api/products/[product-id]`

#### Category

All `/api/categories` endpoints is **restricted** to **admin** only

- ##### View Categories
	GET `/api/categories`

- ##### Add Category
	POST `/api/categories` with a body containing:

		{
			name: categoryName
		}

- ##### Update Category
	PUT `/api/categories/[category-id]` with a body:

		{
			name: newCategoryName
		}

- ##### Delete Category
	DELETE `/api/categories/[category-id]`

#### Tag

All `/api/tags` endpoints is **restricted** to **admin** only

- ##### View Tags
	GET `/api/tags`

- ##### Add Tag
	POST `/api/tags` with a body containing:

		{
			name: tagName
		}

- ##### Update Tag
	PUT `/api/tags/[tag-id]` with a body:
	
		{
			name: newTagName
		}

- ##### Delete Tag
	DELETE `/api/tags/[tag-id]`

#### Delivery Address

All logged in users have access to every delivery address endpoints. 

**Field specific authorization** is in effect for update and delete operation. So users only authorized to update and delete what's belong to them.

- ##### View delivery addresses
	GET `/api/delivery-addresses`

- ##### Add delivery address
	POST `/api/delivery-addresses` with body:

		{
			label: addressLabel (ex: Alamat Rumah),
			kelurahan: kelurahanName,
			kecamatan: kecamatanName,
			kota: kotaOrKabupatenName,
			provinsi: provinsiName,
			detail: addressDetails (street, block, unit number)
		}

- ##### Update delivery address
	PUT `/api/delivery-addresses/[address-id]` with body:

		{
			label: newAddressLabel (ex: Alamat Rumah),
			kelurahan: newKelurahanName,
			kecamatan: newKecamatanName,
			kota: newKotaOrKabupatenName,
			provinsi: newProvinsiName,
			detail: AddressDetails (street, block, unit number)
		}

- ##### Delete delivery address
	DELETE `/api/delivery-addresses/[address-id]`

#### Cart

*Subject to changes. It's possible a controller for updating cart is added in the future. So user can update their cart instead of creating new cart everytime.

- ##### View cart
	GET `/api/cart`

- ##### Add cart
	POST `/api/cart` with body: 

		[
			{
				product: productId,
				quantity: 9999
			},
			{
				product: productId,
				quantity: 9999
			}
		]

- ##### Delete cart
	DELETE `/api/cart/[cart-id]`

#### Order

Field specific authorization is in effect for delete operation.

Admin is the only one who can do update on orders, and it's only for updating delivery_status.

- ##### View orders
	GET `/api/order`

- ##### Add order
	POST `/api/order`

	This POST request does not require request body, because all needed data is retrieved from document in Cart collection.

- ##### Update order
	PUT `/api/order/[order-id]` with body:

		{
			delivery_status:  deliveryStatus
		}

	delivery_status enums:
	- Menunggu pembayaran
	- Diproses
	- Dalam pengiriman

- ##### Delete order
	DELETE `/api/order/[order-id]`

#### Invoice

Invoice is rendered with pug using data from Order.

Field specific authorization is in effect.

- ##### View invoice
	GET `/api/invoice/[order-id]`

	Pay attention to the params. It's using order id. There is no invoice id.
